I want to go over some common issues
that might arise when working with
VirtualBox. The first issue I want to
talk about is antivirus software. Some
windows antivirus software such as
Avira, AVG and others have been known to
interfere with the operation of
virtualbox. I've listed some errors on
your screen here that can be associated
with this type of issue. If you get such
an error when starting a virtual machine
try disabling your antivirus software
and rebooting your system.
Here's a screenshot of one such error.
Again the workaround for this is to
simply disable the antivirus software or
switch to another antivirus software
that doesn't interfere with virtualbox.
If you happen to have a mac you could
use it for your coursework as most of
the issues will be talking about here
are windows related in some way. If you
see an error in your virtual machine
window that says something along the
lines of this kernel requires an x86 64
cpu but only detected an i686 cpu
then you need to enable the
virtualization options in your bios. This
means making sure that you have VT-x for
Intel processors and AMD-v for AMD
processors enabled. This varies from
manufacturer to manufacturer so you
might have to look up the documentation
for your specific computer.
Another thing that can cause the this
kernel requires an x86 64 cpu message
can be that you've selected a 32-bit
processor in virtual box itself. In this
case the error message really isn't
talking about your physical processor
but the virtual processor that it sees.
Go into the settings of the virtual
machine you're having an issue with and
make sure you selected a 64-bit version
for whatever linux distribution you're
using. For example, if you're using CentOS
select red hat 64-bit because centos
really is red hat just without the
branding. If you are using Ubuntu make
sure you select Ubuntu 64-bit, etc.
Finally, I want to leave you with one
last troubleshooting step which is to
simply reboot your physical computer and
try again.
There's a chance that something is not
functioning properly that isn't
immediately obvious to us. When it comes
to troubleshooting our local systems
this is a relatively quick and harmless
thing to try.